                                The ESIO Library
                                  Installation

   ESIO uses the GNU autotools suite (autoconf, automake, and libtool) for
   its development build system.

   This system is popular among the Linux development community and provides
   a familiar build environment for end users.

   To build ESIO starting from a release distribution, untar the distribution
   and enter the top-level directory.

  > tar xvfz esio-0.1.0.tar.gz
  > cd esio-0.1.0/

Configuration Requirements

   HDF5 dependency: ESIO requires that the HDF5 library be available locally.
   HDF5 must have been configured with both Fortran and MPI parallel support
   (--enable-fortran and --enable-parallel, respectively). The same MPI stack
   and Fortran compiler used to compile HDF5 should be used to build ESIO.

   ESIO's configuration script should detect the appropriate information if
   HDF5's h5pcc compiler wrapper is in your path. If your HDF5 installation
   is not detected correctly, you may use ESIO's --with-hdf5 option to
   specify a location.

   ESIO can optionally use The Groovy Toolkit (GRVY) if it is detected at
   configure time. If your GRVY installation is not detected correctly, you
   may use ESIO's --with-grvy option to specify a location.

   Installation Directory: Use the --prefix option to specify your desired
   top-level installation directory for ESIO.

Library Build

   Once configured, issue a make to build the software. If successful, this
   will build the ESIO library (static and dynamic versions), several
   examples, and some additional ESIO-related utilities.

 > make

   Please note that it is highly, highly improbable that anything besides
   GNU Make will be able to build ESIO as the build system relies on
   several GNU extensions.

Build Verification (Optional)

   To optionally verify that the software is working properly, a check
   target is provided to run a suite of functionality tests against the
   local build.  To run these tests, issue

 > make check

   Many of the tests require your MPI installation's <code>mpiexec</code>
   command to be usable and may not be usable on many public high
   performance computing platform login nodes.

Installation

   After the build is complete, issue

  > make install

   to install the library. The installation will consist of three
   top-level directories housing ESIO's include files, compiled libraries,
   and utilities.
